                                                                      
                                                                      
                                                                      CHAPTER 1 -  LINUX FILE SYSTEM
                                                                      
                                                                      
     1.1  Introduction:
    
    - A Linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition.
    - A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data. 
    - In our machine, there can be various partitions of the memory. Generally, every partition contains a file system.
        
    # The Linux file system contains the following sections : 
    - The root directory (/)
    - A specific data storage format (EXT3, EXT4, BTRFS, XFS and so on)
    - A partition or logical volume having a particular file system.
    
    
    
     1.2 Basic Commands -
    
    
1.    pwd - pwd stands for present working directory used to get information about current directory
2.    cd  - it is used for changing the directory 
3.    ls  - used to list the files present in the current directory 
4.    touch file_name - to create file name 
5.                      Example, touch myfile.txt - it will create the text file with name of myfile
                        echo "hello" >> filename.txt - this will insert text 'hello' in the given file
6.    cat file_name - used to display content of the given file
                      Example, cat filename.txt
                      Output =>  hello
7.    cp -r - used to copy all files recursively.
8.    mv - to rename the file 
9.         Example,  mv filename.txt myfile.txt
10.   rm - to remove files
11.   head - to get info about top files instead of all files
           Example, ls |head -5 => it will list down top 5 files
12.    tail - similar as head but instead of top files it will list down last files 
13.    ping - used to check the working of the network
14.    top  - it is used to get the usage of CPU 
15.    uname - this command will give you the the current version of Linux that you are using 
16.    vi - a text editor basically.After opening vi press i to perform the insert operation then press ESCAPE to return to the command line then type wq to save and exit 
17.    cd / - to shift to root user 
18.    mkdir - to make a directory
19.    rmdir - used to remove an empty directory  
    
    
    1.3 About directories and its types-
      The directories have specific purposes and generally hold the same types of information for easily locating files.
 
     Now lets focus on the types of directories :-
     1./bin - this is the directory that command & some of the applications and programs you can run.
     2./boot - it contains the boot files that are required to start device.
     3./dev - device files are stored in this directory likewise if hard disk or other devices are monuted then information about that mounted device will be stored here.
     4./etc - in /etc directory the system configuration is present.
     5./home - /home directory will contain user's personal directories.
     6./lib - this /lib directory will provide libraries for the commands.
     7./media - it is the directory where the external storage will be mounted when plugged in.
     8./mnt - directory where we maunally mount storage or partitions.
     9./opt - acts like extra hard disk
     10./proc - it is the virtual directory which stores the information of CPU & Kernel process.
     11./root - known as the home directory of the Administrator .
     12./temp - directory used when system boots and you need to use temp space
     13./usr - contains unique system resources 
     14./var - used to store data that changes frequently. 
     
     
              
  1.4 Soft Links Vs Hard Links : 
  
    ln - command used to link files
    ln -li = it will show the inode number.
    df -h => it will give information about the file system with memory usage and mounted directory for the file.
    
    Hard Link 
     1.Hard links are having the same inode number pointing to the same file.
     2.These cannot be used on directories.
     3.Example, ln source.txt hardlink.txt it will create hard link for the given file
     
    Soft Links 
     1.Commonly known as symbolic link.
     2.Have capacity to link files on diffrent systems.
     3.Can be used on directory.
     4.Example, ls -s source.txt softlink.txt => this will create soft link for the file

 
