                                                              CHAPTER 2 - USERS AND GROUPS
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
      2.1 Introduction:
      There are three types of accounts on a Unix system −

      Root account
      This is also called superuser and would have complete and unfettered control of the system. 
      A superuser can run any commands without any restriction. 
      This user should be assumed as a system administrator.

      System accounts
      System accounts are those needed for the operation of system-specific components for example mail accounts and the sshd accounts. 
      These accounts are usually needed for some specific function on your system, and any modifications to them could adversely affect the system.

      User accounts
      User accounts provide interactive access to the system for users and groups of users. 
      General users are typically assigned to these accounts and usually have limited access to critical system files and directories.

      supports a concept of Group Account which logically groups a number of accounts.
      Every account would be a part of another group account. A Lnix group plays important role in handling file permissions and process management.
        
        2.2 Commands :
        The following lists out commands that are available on majority of Unix systems to create and manage accounts and groups −
        
         1.useradd - to add user
                     Example, useradd ROHIT =>it will add user as 'GARGI'
         2.cat /etc/passwd - to confirm wheather the user is added or not
         3.passwd GARGI - to assign the password to user GARGI 
         4.su - to switch user
                Example, su -yash => this will switch user to yash
         5.groupadd - to add group
         6.groupdel - to delete group
         7.usermod -aG admin GARGI => This is used to append user to the secondary group.
         8.id GARGI - to get information about user and its group
     
             
        
      2.3 Managing Users and Groups :
      There are four main user administration files −

      /etc/passwd − Keeps the user account and password information. This file holds the majority of information about accounts on the Unix system.

      /etc/shadow − Holds the encrypted password of the corresponding account. Not all the systems support this file.

     /etc/group − This file contains the group information for each account.

     /etc/gshadow − This file contains secure group account information.
     
     
     
     
